README.md, before:

<h1 style="font-weight:normal" align="center">

 MacaqueNet Database 

</h1>

<h3 style="font-weight:normal" align="center">

 Welcome to the public repository for the MacaqueNet Database! <br> This README is an overview of the various files you can find in this repository. 

</h3>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## What is MacaqueNet?

[MacaqueNet](https://macaquenet.github.io/) is a global grassroots network, whose mission is to encourage and facilitate collaboration between macaque researchers. Through cross-species comparative research, we can address questions that single-species studies cannot. As part of this project we are building the [FAIR](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/), standardised and collaborative [MacaqueNet database](https://macaquenet.github.io/database/), bringing together data owners and users. We always welcome [new data requests](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfR3pvQBxVdw8PK0UhnTfzd2Ty85oLSY3HVHmApoq7s-n26Jg/viewform), [new data contributions](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfZYgh6GKW_CmiwbJu4KPil3OUEYgnB3ZUQjMhJ3XfZs2WPhw/viewform) & proposals for new branches of the database with new data types.

Below you will find an overview of the files that can be found in each folder within this repository:

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [database schema_glossary_terms of use](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use)

### Glossary

The ['Glossary.pdf'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use/Glossary.pdf) contains definitions for all terms/variables utilised in the most up-to-date version of the MacaqueNet relational database. There is a heading for each database table, with definitions for each column in bullet points underneath.

### Relational Database Schema

The ['Relational Database Schema.pdf'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use/Relational%20Database%20Schema.pdf) provides an overview of each data table that exists in the MacaqueNet database & shows how these tables link together in the most up-to-date version of the MacaqueNet relational database.

### Terms of Use

The ['Terms of Use.pdf'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use/Terms%20of%20Use.pdf) document contains up-to-date guidelines for contributing to & requesting data from the MacaqueNet database.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Images](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images)

### Events

The ['events'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/events) sub-folder contains images taken from MacaqueNet events, including symposia.

### Logos

The ['logos'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/logos) sub-folder contains logo images for all institutions with which MacaqueNet is or has been affiliated with, including funders & universities. You can also find high resolution versions of the MacaqueNet logo.

### Macaques

The ['macaques'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/macaques) sub-folder contains images of different species of macaque.

### Maps

The ['maps'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/maps) sub-folder contains maps produced by MacaqueNet, including blank world maps, maps showing the natural distribution of macaque species in the wild & the location of research sites from which data in the MacaqueNet database were collected.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Manuscripts](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/manuscripts)

This subfolder contains all MaccaqueNet papers that have been published to-date. All papers are written about the MacaqueNet database and/or consortia, or utilise data stored in the MacaqueNet database.

You can find out more about the project behind the manuscript on our [website](https://macaquenet.github.io/)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Newsletters](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/newsletters)

This folder contains all issues of the MacaqueNet newsletter, which is sent out via email every 6 months (previously every 3 months, until Oct 2024). Each issue subfolder contains a pdf copy of each newsletter, along with any accompanying documents that are linked in each newsletter issue. Our newsletter is a great way to stay up-to-date with eveything from project updates to upcoming events. 

Interested in learning more about MacaqueNet? Anyone can subscribe using our newsletter sign-up [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSef2OLRBd0Bd4PcgsASWWF8JEb2ZEL90XugA2lqLlRud7qDGQ/viewform?pli=1)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Workflow](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20workflow.pdf)

### Email Templates

These files contain the emails that are sent out when [data requests](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20data%20request%20emails) & [data contributions](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20data%20contribution%20emails) are made.

### Data Contribution Template

The ['data contribution template.xlsx'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20social%20behavioral%20data%20contribution%20template.xlsx) a) the information required about a dataset & b) how data/metadata should be formatted when data is contributed to the MacaqueNet database.

### Data Request Overview

The [What happens when a data user requests to use your data.pdf](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/What%20happens%20when%20a%20data%20user%20requests%20to%20use%20your%20data.pdf) provides data contributors with information about what happens when a data user requests permission to utilise their data.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Acknowledgements](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/MacaqueNet%20collaborators/MacaqueNet%20research%20sites%20acknowledgments.Rmd)

The 'MacaqueNet research site acknowledgements.Rmd' lists MacaqueNet collaborators with their current affiliations. We do our best to keep the affiliations up to date, but recommend checking acknowledgements before publishing. The [MacaqueNet collaborators map](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/MacaqueNet%20collaborators/MacaqueNet%20collaborator%20map.pdf) shows where current MacaqueNet collaborators are located, as well as the geographical range of wild macaques.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Database Version](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/NEWS.md)

The 'NEWS.md' file contains a version history for all MacaqueNet database updates. Here you can find information about the current database version, as well as all previous versions & their updates.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Issues, ideas or requests?

Have you detected issues in any of our documents? Or do you have any requests for additional data or suggestions? Feel free to share these with us here ([create new issue](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/issues/new/choose)) or by [emailing us](mailto:MacaqueNet@gmail.com).

Commit message:

update readme to include info about meetings - minutes

README.md, after:

<h1 style="font-weight:normal" align="center">

 MacaqueNet Database 

</h1>

<h3 style="font-weight:normal" align="center">

 Welcome to the public repository for the MacaqueNet Database! <br> This README is an overview of the various files you can find in this repository. 

</h3>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## What is MacaqueNet?

[MacaqueNet](https://macaquenet.github.io/) is a global grassroots network, whose mission is to encourage and facilitate collaboration between macaque researchers. Through cross-species comparative research, we can address questions that single-species studies cannot. As part of this project we are building the [FAIR](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/), standardised and collaborative [MacaqueNet database](https://macaquenet.github.io/database/), bringing together data owners and users. We always welcome [new data requests](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfR3pvQBxVdw8PK0UhnTfzd2Ty85oLSY3HVHmApoq7s-n26Jg/viewform), [new data contributions](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfZYgh6GKW_CmiwbJu4KPil3OUEYgnB3ZUQjMhJ3XfZs2WPhw/viewform) & proposals for new branches of the database with new data types.

Below you will find an overview of the files that can be found in each folder within this repository:

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [database schema_glossary_terms of use](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use)

### Glossary

The ['Glossary.pdf'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use/Glossary.pdf) contains definitions for all terms/variables utilised in the most up-to-date version of the MacaqueNet relational database. There is a heading for each database table, with definitions for each column in bullet points underneath.

### Relational Database Schema

The ['Relational Database Schema.pdf'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use/Relational%20Database%20Schema.pdf) provides an overview of each data table that exists in the MacaqueNet database & shows how these tables link together in the most up-to-date version of the MacaqueNet relational database.

### Terms of Use

The ['Terms of Use.pdf'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/database%20schema_glossary_terms%20of%20use/Terms%20of%20Use.pdf) document contains up-to-date guidelines for contributing to & requesting data from the MacaqueNet database.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Images](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images)

### Events

The ['events'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/events) sub-folder contains images taken from MacaqueNet events, including symposia.

### Logos

The ['logos'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/logos) sub-folder contains logo images for all institutions with which MacaqueNet is or has been affiliated with, including funders & universities. You can also find high resolution versions of the MacaqueNet logo.

### Macaques

The ['macaques'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/macaques) sub-folder contains images of different species of macaque.

### Maps

The ['maps'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/images/maps) sub-folder contains maps produced by MacaqueNet, including blank world maps, maps showing the natural distribution of macaque species in the wild & the location of research sites from which data in the MacaqueNet database were collected.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Manuscripts](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/manuscripts)

This subfolder contains all MaccaqueNet papers that have been published to-date. All papers are written about the MacaqueNet database and/or consortia, or utilise data stored in the MacaqueNet database.

You can find out more about the project behind the manuscript on our [website](https://macaquenet.github.io/)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Newsletters](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/newsletters)

This folder contains all issues of the MacaqueNet newsletter, which is sent out via email every 6 months (previously every 3 months, until Oct 2024). Each issue subfolder contains a pdf copy of each newsletter, along with any accompanying documents that are linked in each newsletter issue. Our newsletter is a great way to stay up-to-date with eveything from project updates to upcoming events. 

Interested in learning more about MacaqueNet? Anyone can subscribe using our newsletter sign-up [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSef2OLRBd0Bd4PcgsASWWF8JEb2ZEL90XugA2lqLlRud7qDGQ/viewform?pli=1)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Meetings](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/tree/main/meetings)

This folder includes minutes from past MacaqueNet General Assembly meetings, held biennially during the “Weaving the MacaqueNet” symposia. Attendance is limited to consortium members, and discussions focus on internal management and future planning.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



## [Workflow](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20workflow.pdf)

### Email Templates

These files contain the emails that are sent out when [data requests](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20data%20request%20emails) & [data contributions](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20data%20contribution%20emails) are made.

### Data Contribution Template

The ['data contribution template.xlsx'](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/MacaqueNet%20social%20behavioral%20data%20contribution%20template.xlsx) a) the information required about a dataset & b) how data/metadata should be formatted when data is contributed to the MacaqueNet database.

### Data Request Overview

The [What happens when a data user requests to use your data.pdf](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/workflow/What%20happens%20when%20a%20data%20user%20requests%20to%20use%20your%20data.pdf) provides data contributors with information about what happens when a data user requests permission to utilise their data.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Acknowledgements](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/MacaqueNet%20collaborators/MacaqueNet%20research%20sites%20acknowledgments.Rmd)

The 'MacaqueNet research site acknowledgements.Rmd' lists MacaqueNet collaborators with their current affiliations. We do our best to keep the affiliations up to date, but recommend checking acknowledgements before publishing. The [MacaqueNet collaborators map](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/MacaqueNet%20collaborators/MacaqueNet%20collaborator%20map.pdf) shows where current MacaqueNet collaborators are located, as well as the geographical range of wild macaques.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Database Version](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/blob/main/NEWS.md)

The 'NEWS.md' file contains a version history for all MacaqueNet database updates. Here you can find information about the current database version, as well as all previous versions & their updates.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Issues, ideas or requests?

Have you detected issues in any of our documents? Or do you have any requests for additional data or suggestions? Feel free to share these with us here ([create new issue](https://github.com/MacaqueNet/database/issues/new/choose)) or by [emailing us](mailto:MacaqueNet@gmail.com).
